---
cover: /articles/configure-alpine.webp
author:
  name: Thomas Hillyer
  avatarUrl: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/8906229
  link: https://github.com/thomashillyer
date: 2023-06-27
layout: article
badges: [{
  color: 'white',
  bg: 'rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.3)',
  content: 'Smart Home'
}]
---
# New Heatpump

I recently had a heatpump installed as a replacement for my oil furnace which has been great, not only because I now have AC as well but also because I won't have to pay outrageous fuel prices. 

Those of you in Seattle are probably also aware of the absolute need for AC in the summer and also of the absolute lack of any housing having it.

Unfortunately, with the install of my heatpump I had to get rid of my Nest smart thermostat. Nests apparently don't handle variable fan speeds which are crucial for the efficiency of heatpumps. Out with the old and in with the ... new? I now have a Mitsubishi MHK2 on my wall. It has some pros and cons.

- Wireless? why would mitsubishi decide to power this off of two AA batteries. The installers actually cut my thermostat wire (that I just put in a month before) because it wasn't needed.
- The choice of using RedLINK isn't overall too bad, it's better than WiFi.
- There are no remote thermometers that can be placed in other rooms.

Really the biggest con is that there is no native smart integration, which is crazy for something so expensive in 2023. There **is** an extra add-on you can buy called Kumo Cloud which is a physical device that attaches where the RedLINK controller attaches in the air handler. Though of course that is massively backordered and no one knows when they will be available.

All of the above led me to trying to make my own smart controller for my heatpump.

[Smart Heatpump](/smart-heatpump)